I can't remember when I first met Tommie. It was in our teens, maybe 13? 14? I don't remember. He was just sort of there one day, with a skateboard under his arm. He was actually able to skate, whereas the plastic-wheeled kids toy I had kept trying to kill me. I guess I always looked up to him, even from those early days.

I don't have a lot of time, because other people have stories to tell. Much though I'd like to, I can't monopllise this moment. If anyone is interested, there is a fuller story of our time together available online. I haven't published it yet, but I will do in a couple of days. There's a LOT of stupid stories, CHARLIE, I'll drop this if it's close to the bone (and some interesting things which aren't really relevant to todays celebrations. I'll stick it on facebook.)

Before I get onto the amusing stuff, I'd like to thank Joyce and Harvey for what they did in Tommies last days. That was true friendship, and you are truly great people for having helped him pass with such ease. Thank you, both of you. ASK FOR APPLAUSE, if it's not forthcoming.

A couple of funny stories, then.

* When Tommy decided to get dreadlocks.

Tommy and I both used to have long hair. We actually used to get mistaken for brothers in Thurso, so alike were we at as teenagers. Indeed, I got into a fight with a guy one night who simply would not believe that I wasn't actually Tommie, and that Tommie was mocking him by pretending not to recognise him, so he threw a pint and a table at me!!
 
 NOTE: about 17 yo at the time

Anyway, Tommies hair was slightly curlier than mine, and for some reason he decided that this would suit dreadlocks perfectly. I'd gone to uni in Aberdeen, and he decided to find himself a hairdresser there who would perform this duty. Bear in mind, this was long, long before email/mobile phones so his visit was genuinely organised by letters back and forth between us, along with a couple of phone calls. Tommies letters were works of art - filled with lovehearts and flowers.

I asked for the evening off from my bar job to spend time with Tommie when he came down, and got denied. I tried explaining that this was TOMMIE! An exception! I might not see him again for months, but they still said no. I then miraculously became ill that evening - and duly got fired. Anyway...

One of my funniest memories of Tommie is him sitting on the end of my single bed in a flat in Aberdeen, looking in the mirror at these absolutely shockingly bad dreadlocks that had suddenly appeared in place of his beautiful curly, long hair, and sobbing his heart out. I think I was sympathetic... I'm not entirely sure. Actually, I think I probably was sympathetic - at that point Tommie and I were as close as brothers be, and I could see that he was so upset. 

* When Tommie helped me cut my hair

Fast forward a year or so, and I've just come back from a few months at sea (yes, me, I spent some time at sea) and my undercut badly needed redoing - I had really, really long hair at the time but had like a crewcut underneath it, if that makes sense. Anyway, it was long overdue a cut. Tommie and Julie (his girlfriend at the time) agreed to do it - I spent most evenings at their house anyway, so this was just a way of passing the time.

Everything was going smoothly when I heard "oops"

What do you mean "oops"? I don't to hear "oops"!!? The little radge had "accidentally" cut into the long part of my hair, and ruined it. There was nothing left to be done, now, except to finish the job. I left my mum and dad's house that night a long haired hippy, and returned a (freezing cold, this was November in Thurso) actually shaven buddhist monk look-alike. 

I'm not sure I ever did quite forgive him for that, but by God did it make him laugh every time I brought it up!

* The skateboard ramps.

A massive part of our lives. I'm hoping Gary will cover this - so little time. Suffice to say, Tommie was generous enough to share the credit for an achievement that, realistically, was all his. Like so many times in his life, I was along for the ride.

* out of time

I think I'm out of time, and I've only covered a couple of stupid stories from our teens/twenties. I really want to say more, about how Tommie was my anchor, my safety net, stories about sitting watching The Wall by Pink Floyd, about him introducing me to music that wasn't Scottish jigs, strathspeys and reels... But other people deserve their chance to tell you about their Tommie. 

One last thing, and it's quick, I promise.

* Tommie

Tommie was a good potter, well respected amongst his peers. He was artistic, skillfull, knowledgeable about glazes, temperatures... stuff. Pottery stuff. But Tommies biggest talent didn't lie in pottery, or driving forklift trucks, or anything like that. Not even skateboarding (I definitely was a better ramp skater than him... :) )

Tommies biggest talent was making friends and, a skill I always envied him of, keeping those friends close. Even if you disappeared for years, Tommie would still make that effort to keep in touch. To make sure you were ok. To make sure that *you knew* Tommie was thinking of you. Looking round this place today, I think Tommie, in death, has proved his skill in that. Look at us all - together like I've never seen before because of one man.

Tommie Newlands.
